most animals do not understand that an
image in a mirror is a reflection of the
world around them but like a small child
pigs as young as six weeks old are
clever enough to work this out to test
out the concept a mirror is set up at
right angles to a solid barrier on one
side of the barrier a bowl of food is
placed on the floor when the hungry
piglet is released he can only see the
food if he looks in the mirror the pig
looked in the mirror and saw the food
bowl if it treated the food bowl as if
it was behind the mirror it's just a
plate of glass as it were then it would
gone to the left and around behind the
mirror but the piglet quickly realizes
the food is just a reflection and to
reach it he has to walk behind the
barrier
it took this six week old piglet just a
few hours to learn the concept of a
mirror something that takes a young
child several months I think it's very
impressive that such a young animal can
learn something quite sophisticated
about a modification of its world what
we expected when we started that was the
probably most pigs wouldn't do it and
what we found was that all but one pigs
that we tested did treat it as a mirror
so we were very impressed by what the
pigs were able to do professor broom
believes pigs are so intelligent their
cognitive processes can be compared to
small children there are a number of
things that we know that a developing
child can do which are you observe
different stages of development in a
young child and some of those same kinds
of things can be looked for in an animal
like a pig so how does a pig compare to
a small child we set up a series of
games in a studio to find out
three children 18 month-old Zahra
two-year-old Polly and three-year-old
Genevieve will all be asked to try and
perform the same tasks as Nellie the
performing pig 18 month old Rupert is
also invited to have a go push a ball
Nellie Nellie has no problem scoring a
goal but all of our three children find
this task far harder Rupert the 18 month
old pig gives it a good try even though
he's only been learning the task for a
short while
very tough trick to do putting a coin in
the piggy bank is tough when you have a
snout
much easier when you have an opposable
thumb even if you are just 18 months old
guiding a golf ball into a hole is the
trick Nelly finds the hardest
but neither of the older children tested
or even their mothers could get this one
right easy without picking the ball up
by the age of 18 months most humans have
no difficulty matching shapes to holes
even Ruppert the 18 month old pig is
master in the art
you